# comp4300-project 
**Main Objective:**
The main objective of our project is to develop a chat application that is able to use both Client-Server and Peer-to-Peer architecture and write a report of the strengths and weaknesses of both architectures from the perspective of our chat application within the context of computer networks. 
Video Playlist - https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLGfXiY43XUC_b6_j5N16LzZh7S960ZzhD

**Introduction:**
There are two main application architectural paradigms: Client-Server architecture and Peer-to-Peer architecture. The Client-Server architecture is an architecture where there is at least one server (or host) that provides a service to the multiple clients connected to it. The Peer-to-Peer architecture is an architecture where all end systems share all the work and responsibilities with each other. In this architecture, each peer acts like both the client and the server. Both have their advantages and disadvantages, and the correct one to use for a specific project depends on a multitude of factors. However, accurately assessing these factors can be a challenging without the appropriate knowledge and expertise. What our paper aims to do is to evaluate both architectures and assess their strengths and weaknesses. The way we will achieve this is through various experiments conducted on our chat application. Our chat application is able to transition between using a Client-Server architecture to a Peer-to-Peer architecture. We use this feature to determine which architecture performs better in certain testable factors. Our experiments goal is to compare difference performance metrics relevant to chat applications. It is important to note that our goal is not to say one architecture is better than the other, but to provide insight and guidance about the potential factors that should be thought of when selecting an architecture and different methodologies to test those factors. At the end, we will have a formal summary discussing our findings.  

